CS 30, Winter 2008 HW 8.
This homework is due monday March 17 at 11:59 pm. This is the last class day of the
quarter, although our last class is March 13. No late homeworks will be accepted.

This homework essentially asks you to understand the material of Sections 16.1, 16.2 and 16.3
of the book, and the main example in Section 16.3, the Parts Database. You will then slightly
extend that Database program. If you understand the program in the book, the extension should 
be doable very quickly.   We will discuss the needed material, structures, in lecture March 11 and 13.

First, download the three files readline.h, readline.c and invent.c from the class website.
You can compile the program invent by issuing the following command:
gcc invent.c readline.c -o invent

Then the compiled program will be in file invent.  Read a description of the program on pages 339, 340
and then try running program invent until you understand what it does. Look at the source code to
understand how it works.  

Problem: Solve problem 9 on page 356. In your program, use the operation code c to specify the operation
of changing a price. If you use a different code, it will make it very hard to grade your program. 
Your updated source code should be called invent.c (you might want to do "cp invent.c invent.sav" to
save the original version of invent.c before making any changes).
To compile your modified program, you need to again use the command:
gcc invent.c readline.c -o invent

An executable solution for problem 9 can be run on any csif machine by using
~gusfield/cs30w08/invent

Hand in your modified source code invent.c on a csif machine using the command:
handin cs30a p8 invent.c readline.c readline.h

Note that you should not have modified readline.c or readline.h, but handing them in with your invent.c
will put a copy of all the components into your handin p8 directory, making it easier to compile
and grade your program.

For added credit (and fun) copy your completed "invent.c" to "inventextra.c".
Then extend inventextra.c so that the
search function asks the user if they want to search on a Part Number or a Part Name. If
the user indicates the former, then the search is done as before, but if the user indicates that
the search is on a Part Name,
then the program asks for the Part Name and then searches using the Part Name input by the user.
Your modified source code should be called inventextra.c.

You can compile the program by issuing the following command:
gcc inventextra.c readline.c -o inventextra

The output of your program should be the same as the executable which can be run on the csif machines at:
~gusfield/cs30w08/inventextra

Hand in the inventextra.c file using the following command:
handin cs30a p8 inventextra.c

